

Whoever looks at the insect world, at flies, aphides, gnats and innumerable parasites, and even at the infant mammals, must have remarked the extreme content they take in suction, which constitutes the main business of their life.
If we go into a library or news-room, we see the same function on a higher plane, performed with like ardor, with equal impatience of interruption, indicating the sweetness of the act.

Of a large and powerful class we might ask with confidence, What is the event they most desire? what gift? What but the book that shall come, which they have sought through all libraries, through all languages, that shall be to / their mature eyes what many a tinsel-covered toy pamphlet was to their childhood, and shall speak to the imagination?

Our debt to tradition through reading and conversation is so massive, our protest or private addition so rare and insignificant,-—and this commonly on the ground of other reading or hearing,-—that, in a large sense, one would say there is no pure originality.

All minds quote.

Old and new make the warp and woof of every moment. There is no thread that is not a twist of these two strande.

By necessity, by proclivity, and by delight, we all quote.

We quote not only books and proverbs, but arts, sciences, religion, customs, and laws; nay, we quote temples and houses, tables and chairs by imitation.

If we confine ourselves to literature, ’t is easy to see that the debt is immense to past thought.

None escapes it.

The originals are not original.

There is imitation, model, and suggestion, to the very arch/angels, if we knew their history.

The first book tyrannizes over the second.

... originality will disappear to such as are either wellread or thoughtful; for scholars will recognize their dogmas as reappearing in men of a similar intellectual elevation throughout history.

People go out to look at sunrises and sunsets who do not recognize their own quietly and happily, but know that it is foreign to them.

As they do by books, so they 'quote' the sunset and the star, and do not make them theirs. Worse yet, they live as foreigners in the world of truth, and quote thoughts, and thus disown them. Quotation confesses inferiority.

In opening a new book we often discover, from the unguarded devotion with which the writer gives his motto or text, all we have to expect from him.

In literature quotation is good only when the writer whom I follow goes my way, and, being better mounted than I, gives me a cast, as we say; but if I like the gay equipage so well as to go out of my road, I had better have gone afoot.

Whatever we think and say is wonderfully better for our spirits and trust in another mouth.

Next to the originator of a good sentence is the first quoter of it. Many will read the book before / one thinks of quoting a passage. As soon as he has done this, that line will be quoted east and west.

In so far as the receiver’s aim is on life, and not on literature, will be his indifference to the source.

The nobler the truth or sentiment, the less imports the question of authorship.

It never troubles the simple seeker from whom he derived such or such a sentiment.

In fact, it is as difficult to appropriate the thoughts of others, as it is to invent.

Always some steep transition, some sudden alteration of temperature, ofpoint or of view, betrays the foreign interpolation.

Then people quote so differently: one finding only what is gaudy and popular; another, the heart of the author, the report of his select and happiest hour: and the reader sometimes giving more to the citation than he owes to it.

We are as much informed of a writer’s genins by what he selects as by what he originates.

We read the quotation with his eyes, and find a new and fervent sense; as a passage from one of the poets, well recited, borrows new interest from the rendering.

It is a familiar expedient of brilliant writers, and not less of witty talkers, the device of ascribing their own sentence to an imaginary person, in order to give it weight ...

It is a curious reflex effect of this enhancement of our thought by citing it from another, that many men can write better under a mask than for themselves...

... this idea of the authorship controlling our appreciation of the works tbemselves.

Language is a city, to the building of which every human being brought a stone

»What would remain to me if this art of appropriation were derogatory to genius? Every one of my writings has been furnished to me by a thousand different persons, a thousand things: / wise and foolish have brought me, without suspecting it, the offering of their thoughts, faculties, and experience. My work is an aggregation of beings taken from the whole of nature; it bears the name of Goethe.«
Goethe

The divine resides in the new.

The divine never quotes, but is, and creates.

The profound apprehension of the Present is Genius, which makes the Past forgotten. Genius believes its faintest presentiment against the testimony of all history ; for it knows that facts are not ultimates, but that a state of mind is the ancestor of everything.

And what is Originality? It is being, being one’s self, and reporting accurately what we see and are. Genius is, in the first instance, sensibility, the capacity of receiving just impressions from the / exterrial world, and the power of co-ordinating these after the laws of thought. It implies Will, or original force, for their right distribution and expression. If to this the sentiment of piety be added, if the thinker feels that the, thought most strictly his own is not his own, and recognizes the perpetual suggestion of the Supreme Intellect, the oldest thoughts become new and fertile whilst he speaks them.

Originals never lose their value. There is alwaya in them a style and weight of speech, which the immanence of the oracle bestowed, and which cannot be counterfeited. Hence the permanence of the high poets.

Only an inventor knows how to borrow, and every man is or should be an inventor.

This vast memory is only raw material.

The divine gift is ever the instant life, which receives and uses and creates, and can well bury the old in the omnipotency with which Nature decomposes all her harvest for recomposition.
