Photographers, it is true, do not work but they do do something: They create, process and store symbols.
There have always been people who have done such things: writers, painters, composers, book-keepers, managers.
In the process these people have produced objects: books, paintings, scores, balance-sheets, plans – objects that have not been consumed but that have served as carriers of information.
They were read, looked at, played, taken into account, used as the basis for decisions.
They were not an end but a means.
Currently this sort of activity is being taken over by apparatuses.
As a result, the objects of information created in this way are becoming more and more efficient and more and more extensive, and they are able to program and control all the work in the old sense.
Therefore, most human beings are currenfly employed on and in work-programming and work-controlling apparatuses.

If one considers the camera (and apparatuses in general) in this sense, one sees that the camera produces symbols: symbolic surfaces that have in a certain way been prescribed for it.
The camera is programmed to produce photographs, and every photograph is a realization of one of the possibilities contained within the program of the camera.
The number of such possibilities is large, but it is nevertheless finite: It is the sum of all those photographs that can be taken by a camera.

Photographers endeavour to exhaust the photographic program by realizing all their possibilities.
But this program is rich and there is no way of getting an overview of it.
Thus photographers attempt to find the possibilities not yet discovered within it...

Such activity can be compared to playing chess. Chess-players too pursue new possibilities in the program of chess, new moves.
Just as they play with chess-pieces, photographers play with the camera.
The camera is not a tool but a plaything, and a photographer is not a worker but a player: not 'Homo faber' but 'Homo ludens'.
Yet photographers do not play with their plaything but against it.
They creep into the camera in order to bring to fight the tricks concealed within.
Unlike manual workers surrounded by their tools and industrial workers standing at their machines, photographers are inside their apparatus and bound up with it.
This is a new kind of function in which human beings are neither the constant nor the variable but in which human beings and apparatus merge into a unity.
It is therefore appropriate to call photographers functionaries.

As will be shown later, the programs of apparatuses consist of symbols.
Functioning therefore means playing with symbols and combining them.

Writers can be considered functionaries of the apparatus ‘language’ that plays with the symbols contained within the language program – with words – by combining them.
Their intention is to exhaust the language program and to enrich literature, the universe of language.

... language ... nowadays be 'apparatusized' ...
'Word processors' can replace writers.
In their games with words, writers inform pages – they imprint letters on them – something a word processor can also do and, even though this is 'automatic', i.e. happens by chance, it can, in the long run, create the same information as a writer.

Of course, there can be no  ‘final’ program of a ‘final’ apparatus since every program requires a metaprogram by which it is programmed.
The hierarchy of programs is open at the top.
