With the rise of the Web, writing has met its photography.
By that, I mean writing has encountered a situation similar to what happened to painting with the invention of photography, a technology so much better at replicating reality that, in order to survive, painting had to alter its course radically.
If photography was striving for sharp focus, painting was forced to go soft, hence impressionism.
It was a perfect analog to analog correspondence, for nowhere lurking beneath the surface of either painting, photography, or film was a speck of language.
Instead, it was image to image, thus setting the stage for an imagistic revolution.
Today, digital media has set the stage for a literary revolution.
In 1974 Peter Bürger was still able to make the claim that ›because the advent of photography makes possible the precise mechanical reproduction of reality, the mimetic function of the fine arts withers.
But the limits of this explanatory model become clear when one calls to mind that it cannot be transferred to literature.
For in literature, there is no technical innovation that could have produced an effect comparable to that of photography in the fine arts.‹
Now there is.

If painting reacted to photography by going abstract, it seems unlikely that writing is doing the same in relation to the Internet.
It appears that writing’s response—taking its cues more from photography than painting—could be mimetic and replicative, primarily involving methods of distribution, while proposing new platforms of receivership and readership.
Words very well might not only be written to be read but rather to be shared, moved, and manipulated, sometimes by humans, more often by machines, providing us with an extraordinary opportunity to reconsider what writing is and to define new roles for the writer.
While traditional notions of writing are primarily focused on ›originality‹ and ›creativity,‹ the digital environment fosters new skill sets that include ›manipulation‹ and ›management‹ of the heaps of already existent and ever-increasing language.
While the writer today is challenged by having to ›go up‹ against a proliferation of words and compete for attention, she can use this proliferation in unexpected ways to create works that are as expressive and meaningful as works constructed in more traditional ways.
