When Man, in his Maker's image, came
To be the lord of the new-made earth,
To conquer its forests, its beasts to tame,
To gather its metals and know their worth—
All readily granted his power and place,
Save the Ocean, the Mountain, and Time and Space;
And these four sneered at his puny frame,
And made of his lordship a theme for mirth.
Whole ages passed while his flocks he tended,
And delved and dreamed, as the years went by;
’Till there came an age when his genius splendid
Had bridged the rivers, and sailed the sky,
And raised the dome that defied the storm,
And mastered the beauties of color and form;
But his power was lost, his dominion ended,
Where Time, Space, Mountain, or Sea was nigh.
The mountains rose in their grim inertness
Between the nations, and made them strange,
Save as in moments of pride or pertness
They climbed the ridge of their native range,
And, looking down on the tribe below,
Saw nothing there but a deadly foe;
Heard only a war-cry, long and shrill,
In echoes leaping from hill to hill.
The Ocean rolled in its mighty splendor,
Washing the slowly-wasting shore,
And the voices of nations, fierce or tender,
Lost themselves in its endless roar.
With frail ships launched on its treacherous surge,
And sad eyes fixed on its far blue verge,
Man’s hold of life seemed brittle and slender,
And the Sea his master for evermore.
And Space and Time brought their huge dimensions
To separate man from his brother man,
And sowed between them a thousand dissensions,
That ripened in hatred and caste and clan.
So Sea and Mountain and Time and Space
Laughed again in his lordship's face,
And bade him blush for his weak inventions,
And the narrow round his achievements ran.
But one morning he made him a slender wire,
As an artist’s vision took life and form,
While he drew from heaven the strange, fierce, fire,
That reddens the edge of the midnight storm;
And he carried it over the Mountain’s crest,
And dropped it into the Ocean’s breast;
And Science proclaimed, from shore to shore,
That Time and Space ruled man no more. /
Then the brotherhood lost on Shinar’s plain
Came back to the peoples of earth again.
›Be one!‹ sighed the Mountain, and shrunk away.
›Be one!‹ murmed Ocean, in dashes of spray.
›Be one!‹ said Space ›I forbid no more.‹
›Be one!‹ echoed Time, ›till my years are o’er.‹
›We are one!‹ said the Nations, and hand met hand
In a thrill electric from land to land.
