Everywhere we look, we see screens.

We are becoming people of the screen.

The past is a rush of data streams cut and rearranged into a new mashup, while truth is something you assemble yourself on your own screen as you jump from link to link.

We are now in the middle of a second Gutenberg shift — from book fluency to screen fluency, from literacy to visuality.

You cut and paste words on a page.
You quote verbatim from an expert.
You paraphrase a lovely expression.
You add a layer of detail found elsewhere.
You borrow the structure from one work to use as your own.

An image stored on a memory disc instead of celluloid film has a plasticity that allows it to be manipulated as if the picture were words rather than a photo.

Every conceivable angle, lighting condition and point of view of the Golden Gate Bridge has been photographed and posted.
If you want to use an image of the bridge in your video or movie, there is really no reason to take a new picture of this bridge.
It’s been done.
All you need is a really easy way to find it.

... this is how authors work.
We dip into a finite set of established words, called a dictionary, and reassemble these found words into articles, novels and poems that no one has ever seen before.
The joy is recombining them.

But merely producing movies with ease is not enough for screen fluency, just as producing books with ease on Gutenberg’s press did not fully unleash text.
Literacy also required a long list of innovations and techniques that permit ordinary readers and writers to manipulate text in ways that make it useful.
For instance, quotation symbols make it simple to indicate where one has borrowed text from another writer.
Once you have a large document, you need a table of contents to find your way through it.
That requires page numbers. Somebody invented them (in the 13th century).
Longer texts require an alphabetic index, devised by the Greeks and later developed for libraries of books.
Footnotes, invented in about the 12th century, allow tangential information to be displayed outside the linear argument of the main text.
And bibliographic citations (invented in the mid-1500s) enable scholars and skeptics to systematically consult sources.
These days, of course, we have hyperlinks, which connect one piece of text to another, and tags, which categorize a selected word or phrase for later sorting.
All these inventions (and more) permit any literate person to cut and paste ideas, annotate them with her own thoughts, link them to related ideas, search through vast libraries of work, browse subjects quickly, resequence texts, refind material, quote experts and sample bits of beloved artists.
These tools, more than just reading, are the foundations of literacy.

We are people of the screen now.
