Well into a year-long study that put powerful computers in the classrooms of a group of “average” seventh graders, the students were at work on what they called “computer poetry.”
They were using computer programs to generate sentences.
They gave the computer a syntactic structure within which to make random choices from given lists of words.
The result is the kind of concrete poetry we see in the illustration that follows.

INSANE RETARD MAKES BECAUSE SWEET SNOOPY SCREAMS
SEXY WOLF LOVES THATS WHY THE SEXY LADY HATES
UGLY MAN LOVES BECAUSE UGLY DOG HATES
MAD WOLF HATES BECAUSE INSANE WOLF SKIPS
SEXY RETARD SCREAMS THATS WHY THE SEXY RETARD HATES
THIN SNOOPY RUNS BECAUSE FAT WOLF HOPS
SWEET FOGINY SKIPS A FAT LADY RUNS

One of the students, a thirteen-year-old named Jenny, had deeply touched the project’s staff by asking on the first day of her computer work, “Why were we chosen for this? We’re not the brains.”
The study had deliberately chosen children of “average” school performance.
One day Jenny came in very excited. She had made a discovery.
“Now I know why we have nouns and verbs,” she said.
For many years in school Jenny had been drilled in grammatical categories.
She had never understood the differences between nouns and verbs and adverbs.
But now it was apparent that her difficulty with grammar was not due to an inability to work with logical categories.
It was something else. She had simply seen no purpose in the enterprise.
She had not been able to make any sense of what grammar was about in the sense of what it might be 'for'.

In fact, tracing the connection between learning grammar and improving speech requires a more distanced view of the complex process of learning language than Jenny could have been given at the age she first encountered grammar.
She certainly didn’t see any way in which grammar could help talking, nor did she think her talking needed any help.
Therefore she learned to approach grammar with resentment.
And, as is the case for most of us, resentment guaranteed failure.
But now, as she tried to get the computer to generate poetry, something remarkable happened.
She found herself classifying words into categories, not because she had been told she had to but because she needed to.
In order to “teach” her computer to make strings of words that would look like English, she had to “teach” it to choose words of an appropriate class.
What she learned about grammar from this experience with a machine was anything but mechanical or routine.
Her learning was deep and meaningful. Jenny did more than learn definitions for particular grammatical classes.
She understood the general idea that words (like things) can be placed in different groups or sets, and that doing so could work for her.
She not only “understood” grammar, she changed her relationship to it.
It was “hers,” and during her year with the computer, incidents like this helped Jenny change her image of herself.
Her performance changed too; her previously low to average grades became “straight A’s” for her remaining years of school.
She learned that she could be “a brain” after all.

In 1968-1969, the first class of twelve “average” seventh-grade students at the Muzzy Junior High School in Lexington, Massachusetts, ... wrote programs ... to generate concrete poetry.
